# Models

## Ressources
### [A mathematimatical model of the motor cortex](https://amslaurea.unibo.it/15002/1/mazzetti_caterina_tesi_magistrale.pdf)

The hypercolumnar structure. For simple cells (sensitive to orientation) columnar structure means that to every retinal position is associated a set of cells (hypercolumn) sensitive to all the possible orientations. This structure is described as a principal bundle, more precisely as a fiber bundle with retinal base R2 and fiber S1. The total space of the fiber bundle is therefore R2 × S1. Note that cortex is a surface, hence a 2D structure, in which the hypercolumns are implemented by a process of dimensional reduction that gives rise to orientation maps, called pinwheel. Furthermore, simple cells activity provides the cortical space R2 × S1 with a Lie group structure with sub-Riemannian metric.

The cells generate a sensitive and perceived space which is inherited but do not coincide with external geometrical space generated by properties of the objects which surround us

We observe that in this first model of the hypercolumnar structure there are three parameters: the position in the retinal plane, which is two dimensional, and the orientation preference of cells in the plane. The visual cortex is however two-dimensional and then the third dimension collapses onto the plane giving rise to the fascinating pinwheels configuration

## Flashcards
??? question "What is the hypercolumnar structure? How does it relate to simple cells in the motor cortex? [](){.fbutton .ok}[](){.fbutton .nok}"
    The hypercolumnar structure means that for every retinal position, there's a set of cells (hypercolumn) sensitive to all possible orientations.

    In simple cells, which are sensitive to orientation, this columnar structure is described as a principal bundle or a fiber bundle with a retinal base R2 and fiber S1, resulting in a total space of R2 × S1. The cortex, being a 2D structure, implements the hypercolumns through dimensional reduction, leading to orientation maps called pinwheels
    ##### id: 9b06ff, box: 2, score: 1/1, next: 11/10/2023, last: 10/10/2023

??? question "How does the activty of simple cells affect the cortical space?[](){.fbutton .ok}[](){.fbutton .nok}"
    The activity of simple cells provides the cortical space R2 × S1 with a Lie group structure that has a sub-Riemannian metric. This sensitive and perceived space generated by the cells is inherited but does not necessarily match the external geometrical space formed by surrounding objects' properties
    ##### id: 087caa, box: 1, score: 0/0, next: 09/10/2023, last: 09/10/2023

??? question "What are the 3 parameters of the model of the retina? [](){.fbutton .ok}[](){.fbutton .nok}"
    In the hypercolumnar structure model, there are three parameters:

    - position in the retinal plane (two-dimensional)
    - the orientation preference of cells in the plane
    However, the visual cortex is two-dimensional, causing the third dimension to collapse onto the plane, resulting in the unique pinwheels configuration
    ##### id: e5d7d6, box: 1, score: 0/0, next: 09/10/2023, last: 09/10/2023